Now we have a better idea of how we're going to make our code more useful.
Well let's start writing out some code now understanding this entire flow from the get go is kind of
challenging.
So rather than trying to do this entire refactor all at once we're going to set ourselves a little bit
more immediate goal.
We're going to try to say that rather than defining all these different options right away inside of
some config object we're just going to try to pass in some routes elements.
So this is going to be some element that the autocomplete should be rendered into.
So the immediate goal that we're going to focus on is just having the ability to show multiple different
auto completes on the screen at the same time.
So we should be able to create multiple different config objects and pass each of them into some autocomplete
function.
The auto complete function should then create the auto complete in those different root elements so
again.
That's the immediate goal.
That's what we're going to try to do from the get go.
So to get started going to first go back over to my editor inside of my root project directory I'll
create a new file called auto complete dot J.S. inside of here.
I'm going to define a function called Create auto complete so we're going to call this function multiple
different times and eventually it's going to have a bunch of reusable code inside of it whenever we
call this function we're gonna pass in some kind of configuration object and that config object is going
to have all the kind of custom functions that specify how the autocomplete should work inside of our
specific application.
So that config object is essentially where we put all of our references to movies and how the movie
should be rendered and what to do when one gets clicked and so on and then going to make sure that I
wire up that autocomplete J.S. file inside of my index dot each team l file the inside of here I'll
go down to the very bottom I'm going to duplicate one of the script tags and then change the S C to
auto complete.
So now that file will actually be executed to make sure that you've got utilize and then autocomplete
and then indexed J.S. if index not JSA is listed first then the code inside there will run first and
it will try to call the autocomplete function before it has been created yet.
So I'll save that file.
Now we're going to start to do the big refactor to the big refactor.
We're gonna go into index dot J.S. and I'm going to take as much of the autocomplete related code as
possible that is supposed to be reusable in nature and move it over to the autocomplete dot J.S. file
that's going to start from about line 16 or so where I have const root right there I'm going to go from
that line and I'm going to select everything down to the end of document add event listener that's about
line sixty five or so for me and then going to cut all that go over to autocomplete J S and paste it
into the function
okay.
It's now all we have to do is start to repair the code inside of here we're going to make sure that
some of the stuff that is application specific is being taken from this config object instead of being
placed directly inside this file it's the first and best example of that is going to be the root element
right here.
Normally when all this code runs it assumes that our document is going to have a div or some other element
with a class of autocomplete.
If that were the case then we would only be able to call it create autocomplete exactly one time because
there's probably only one element that we're going to be able to select with the statements so instead
of trying to figure out what element we should be rendering into inside of this reusable function we're
going to instead accept this as a configurable property that we're going to make sure that our config
object has a root property and that's going to be the element that the autocomplete should be rendered
into So in other words this config object right there I'm going to expect to have a root element so
I'm going to restructure out a property called root like so make sure you get those curly braces because
we are de structuring that property out so now because this is being provided as an option to create
auto complete function it no longer on its own has to figure out where to render the auto complete so
we can now delete that first statement right there.
All right one or two other quick changes inside of here on lines 12 or 14 or so where we've got all
those different references to input dropdown and so on those are trying to find just some input in the
documents or some element with the class a dropdown and so on.
We don't want that to be the case.
Instead we want to try to find the input the dropdown and results that are inside of that root element.
In other words that one right there that input and that results element as well.
So to make sure that we get those elements we can update the query SELECT right here instead of looking
at the entire document.
We're going to look specifically inside of the root element so root root and root.
All right.
That's probably just about everything we have to do inside of create autocomplete for right now.
So now we can go back over to our index not ust file and we're going to try to call it create autocomplete
multiple different times every single time we're gonna form up a different configuration object that
has a different route element to render the autocomplete into it's a back inside of index dot J.S. I'm
going to call create autocomplete and I'll pass in my configuration object this thing is going to have
a root element let's first go back over to our index not each CML file and make sure that there are
different elements so we can render these separate auto completes into inside of index start each L
right now we've got that one day with the class of autocomplete I'm gonna duplicate that down twice
so I'm going to try to render three different auto completes into my application one into that one that
one and that one I need to make sure that I give them class names just to make sure that they are easier
to select so on the second one I'll do autocomplete dash to and auto fleet dash three like so we'll
eventually get some better class names in this but for right now that's good enough for testing purposes
finally we can go back over to index dot J Yes and I'm going to say that I want to create one instance
of an auto complete widget at a root element of document dot query selector dot auto complete then I'm
going to duplicate this down twice so 1 into and I'll change the query selectors for those two other
divs that we just added in so the second one right there is going to get auto complete dash to the auto
complete Dash 2 and then dash 3 and that should be at yes let's say this will test it and then do a
quick wrap up on the changes we made so go back over refresh and now I see that three different inputs
I'll first go down to the bottom one I'll search for Avengers There we go and I can click it and select
it and it gets selected on the screen I'll then go to the second on I'll try searching for Dark Knight
Yep that one works as well that one gets selected on the screen now why is it getting selected here
will it remember right now our create auto complete function has a reference to just one single element
to show the output in that summary right there inside of on movie select so that is the only location
right now where we can render some output to whenever user clicks on an element and that's why we're
seeing essentially the same summary element being overwritten every single time that we click on a movie
so obviously that's something that's definitely going to eventually have to be fixed up but again for
right now we were just worried about trying to make sure that we could show the same root element versus
show the same auto in different root elements.
Finally one more test here on the first one I'll look for Avengers bucket and that works as well okay
so that's pretty much it we can now clearly show multiple different autocomplete widgets on the screen
whereas before we definitely could only show one at a time so the big summary here and the process that
we're going to start to duplicate again it again in the next couple of videos as we continuous refactor
is that we are trying to be able to create multiple different auto completes and we're going to centralize
all the logic around creating each one inside of index not J.S. and inside of autocomplete dot us we're
going to have just the logic inside of here that is reusable between different projects so it will not
have any references to movies it will have no idea what a movie object is we'll have no idea of the
different properties it has and so on.
So let's take a pause right here and continue our refactor in the next video.